---
layout: posts
title: 120 Hours - Bootcamp - Week 2
---

<article>
<h1>120 Hours</h1>

<p>I turn 33 years old in one week. My son just turned 6 earlier this week, on August 30th.
With decades apart in age, we both are going through a tremendous phase of learning and 
personal development.</p>

<p>He began life as a big 1st grader 3 weeks ago. I just wrapped up my first
two weeks of web development bootcamp. After many prior attempts, on this Memorial Day weekend,
he is now riding his bicycle without training wheels! I feel I've found a similar balance as
a father, and as a developer.</p>

<p>In two weeks, I've spent about 120 hours learning and applying new skills. I've  been introduced to many technologies for the first time, but one of the most valuable lessons I've learned is to plan and chunk my time into tasks that I can reasonably accomplish.</p>

<p>What I've found helpful is to plan tasks to complete when I don't have the time
to do any work. So, when doing things like household chores, driving, or any number of 
other activities, I'm mentally organizing what to get done, and jotting down a quick note
about it (not exactly a strict to-do list). Then when I find free minutes, or I've set aside ample time, it's go time!</p>

<p>For small tasks, if I've planned well, I should be able to edit or produce code, verify and test, commit, and push the work in 15-30 minutes. If I hit a snag or something I don't understand that requires further research, or more time to consider a better approach, then I will find or make that time elsewhere - instead of when I'm trying to power through the next incremental addition to the code.</p>

<p>In short, I've found it very helpful and productive to identify the 'less involved'
project tasks, and to get them done in very short sessions. Then, laptop closed, until
planned hours of time arrive where I can work on more complex and time consuming tasks.</p>

</article>